we interrupt that report to bring you a
live broadcast from the United Nations
Riyad mansur the Palestinian
representative to the United Nations is
currently briefing the security Council
let's listen two days ago and acted
accordingly it would have saved hundreds
of
lives maybe for some saving hundreds of
Palestinian lives is not such an
important objective to
pursue but are you sure that Palestinian
lives are the only ones you would be
saving if you
act we told this councils months ago act
to save lives all
lives you did not hear us then don't
make the same mistake
now Mr
President people are being killed as we
speak a humanitarian catastrophe of
unprecedented proportion is unfolding in
Gaza live on TV
screens and we heard what Mr Griffith
said a political disaster is
underway and yet the security Council of
the United Nations is unable to say the
only thing that truly
matters stop the
Bloodshed I repeat stop the
Bloodshed for those who think they can
avert a humanitarian catastrophe and a
regional spell over while Israel continu
continues bombing and killing
Palestinians think
again the region is united in telling
you it is not possible listen to them
the only way to prevent both
is to stop this criminal aggression
against our
people Mr
President there is no
speech no legal
conation no political cover that can
clear Israel of its responsibility for
the Palestinian civilians it is
killing for 75 years now Israel has
explained
brazenly
Justified how it had to dispossess us
how it had to occupy our land how it had
to kill our people all in full
impunity killing more Palestinians will
never never make Israel more
secure 75 years of experience should
have been proof enough for those who
want to learn
there is no logic in this world no moral
in this world and no law in this world
that can justify the killing of a people
innocent children women and men as a
pretext to make
another secure another one
secure the whole world is watching
they're watching us the events of the
last 10 days May shape the next 10 years
in our region and Beyond what happens
next is decisive if anyone thinks this
is a situation under control for which
you can plan and
Implement they are making false and
irresponsible
assumptions this is the kind of War
where you know how it starts and have no
clue How It Ends until now it can be
stopped and it should be stopped
immediately any further delay is a r
risk no one should
take the council should have met today
to heed the call of the Secretary
General of religious leaders around the
world including the pope of the Arab
states of the Muslim countries of of the
global south of the overwhelming number
of states around the world of billions
of people including the millions who
marched in your streets stop the
Bloodshed stop it now stop the Bloodshed
stop it now listen to them but it has
not heeded these calls it has not upheld
international law unequivocally equally
and respons responsibly and in the next
few hours more Palestinians will be
killed tensions in the region will rise
to new dangerous levels anger and
resentment will explode each one of us
will be asked what we did when all of
this was
happening all will be asked what they
did to prevent what will happen next
the council's failure to shoulder its
responsibilities after 10 days of
Israeli massacres against the
Palestinian people and after the killing
of hundreds of people gathered in a
hospital to find shelter and Care will
Mark public opinions in our region and
the world for a very long time and
affect belief in the protections of the
law for all people as well as their
perceptions and
reactions this was not a moment to
Foster more Despair and more
impunity this was not a moment to make
the same mistakes that got us there here
in the first place
finally Israel does not deny that it
killed entire families infants children
their parents uncles and aunts and
cousins their grandparents with
sometimes up to 45 members of the same
family being slaughtered it has done so
repeatedly through the years and is
doing it again this time in the Gaza
Strip it has now killed 3,500
Palestinians almost all civilians
including more than 1,000 children it
admitted it was was killing all of
them but urged it could not do
otherwise their deaths were not its
fault even though it killed them but the
hospital
Massacre had such an impact on global
public opinion that it had to change
tactics and change its original story
into a new one so Israel will deny
responsibility for the massacre in the
Baptist hospital
alahi just as it made every effort to
deny its responsibility in the killing
of Shireen abak and and
Mahmud Muhammad dur and in the many
massacres it had perpetrated over the
decades despite overwhelming evidence to
the contrary it will blame the
Palestinians for their own death and as
it has always done and it will attempt
to PR to present evidence to that effect
to this Council remember the last time
somebody presented evidence in this
chamber to justify War do you remember
that somebody came with technological uh
uh devices and pictures and what have
you to convince you of evidence
remember the last time somebody
presented evidence in this chamber to
justify War I am sure the council the
media and the world will not be fooled
by such theater
again these are serious times they
require serious and responsible
leadership one this Council has failed
to provide some members here are losing
an opportunity to change our region for
the better whatever their calculations
they are
wrong may they change course before it
is too late reality on the ground will
overtake any plans you may have shaping
it or enduring it is a decision that
needs to be made now thank you Mr
President I thank the permanent Observer
of the Observer state of Palestine for
his
statement I now give the floor to the
representative of
[Music]
Israel thank you Mr President
distinguished council
members what is going on going on on
here I'm truly shocked I'm
horrified I truly don't understand what
is going on on here the most barbaric
and widescale terror attack in decades
bigger than 911 was perpetrated 11 days
ago and it seems like this Council has
already
forgotten the pictures and footage from
the October 7th pogram are seared into
my brain in every israeli's brain
forever but it seems that I must remind
some of you of what happened thousands
of barbaric Hamas Nazis invaded Israel
and brutally murdered 1,400 innocent
Israelis as they slept celebrated hugged
their families in fear and cried for
Mercy some were raped other beheaded and
some were burned alive while bound and
gagged many were children and hundreds
were young people at a music
festival there were many paramedics
talking about Medical Teams there were
many par paramedics who were murdered on
their way to treat the wounded mothers
who watched as their babies were
slaughtered and elderly Holocaust
Survivors who endured the Nazis only to
be executed in their own living room
this was planned and carried out
deliberately deliberately by the
terrorists that rule Gaza
today as we speak
not by accident not by mistake but
deliberately 200 Innocents were
violently taken hostage many of which
are Nationals of your own
countries I read hamas's Charter aloud
to you just two days ago hamas's word
were not empty threats hamas's Charter
is their action plan their goal is the
annihilation of Israel and if Hamas has
the opportunity to commit these
atrocities again they will and you know
it although there are some here that
choose not to designate Hamas as a
terror Organization for political
reasons it still doesn't change the
facts Hamas deliberately deliberately
targets civilians and massacres children
when given the
chance this makes Hamas a terror
Organization no different than
Isis they do not believe in dialogue
they don't want a dialogue not in
political solutions they only believe in
Exterminating Jews and annihilating the
Jewish State and nothing can change
their genocidal ideology they don't even
recognize the existence of international
law to all those who are talking about
two-state solution and international law
there is only one solution solution to
curing a Cancer and it is the
evisceration of every cancerous cell
just as was done with Isis and Al-Qaeda
complete obliteration this is the only
way to ensure such atrocities will never
be
repeated
nevertheless look at what is going on
here 11 days after Isis like Hamas
terrorists attempted to carry out
another Jewish genocide this Council is
not even focused on their heinous crimes
up until today you have not even done
the most basic thing you have not
condemned as a councel hamas's brutal
terror attack it is really
unfathomable you cannot unite even on
that basic thing you are not focused on
what needs to be done to free Gaza from
Kamas and ensure that the oppression of
the Gaz people by their T by their
tyrants ends instead the council is
fixated only on humanitarian corridors
and
Aid these are important and Noble causes
but they are
certainly not a solution to prevent
hamas's NE next atrocious
Massacre how is it possible that you are
only dealing with resolutions like the
one that was voted upon today it's
tragic to say but this council is
playing the exact role that Hamas was
written for it in their script of death
and Terror and I will
explain Israel unilaterally withdrew
from Gaza 18 years ago Hamas was then
elected elected by the people of Gaza I
hear a lot that they do not represent
them elected and after murdering the
Palestinian Authority officials by
throwing them off rooftops Hamas
proceeded to convert every inch of the
Gaza strep to a war machine where was
the council then where was the council
when Hamas exploited the billions of
dollars in international Aid to embed
Terror infrastructure within and Below
densely populated residential areas
where were you where was the UN the UN
knew all of this but it remained silent
Kamas then spent the following seven
contins terrorizing Israel by firing
tens of thousands of rockets
indiscriminately at Israeli towns and
cities while hiding behind their own
civilians where has the council been as
we speak right now Sirens are wailing
millions in Israel are running to find
shelters Hamas does this so that once
Israel strikes back back they can parade
the bodies of the civilians in Gaza that
they hid behind their strategy is to
exploit their civilian casualties as
propaganda to Leverage The International
Community to tie Israel's hands their
goal is to increase civilian casualties
in Gaza this is part of their script
they know that they cannot beat Israel
on the battlefield of course they know
it so they want to terrorize our
citizens deliberately only citizens and
then weaponize the UN to prevent Israel
from obliterating them so they can
rebuild rearm and continue terrorizing
Israelis they have a lot of patience
while working towards annihilating
Israel a lot of patience this is hamas's
script this is their playbook and
shockingly even after the recent
Slaughter it's still working for
them do you not understand that just by
holding this session with its focus the
council is showing Hamas that they can
fool everyone again and again and again
I reiterate so far this Council has not
even condemned Hamas for the atrocity it
perpetrated let alone held Hamas fully
responsible for the situation in Gaza
but here we are discussing humanitarian
corridors does nobody else see how
ludicrous this
is calling for calm restraint and
ceasefires is like putting a bandaid on
a bullet wound such steps will not
eradicate the cancer that is Hamas
humanitarian corridors will not prevent
the next atrocity the only thing that
will is the utter obliteration of this
satanic
entity what are you doing to prevent
this evil perhaps if for once for once
the council condemned Hamas the people
of Gaza would begin to comprehend the
absolute destruction their leaders have
brought upon them perhaps they would
stand up to these barbaric
Savages yet every time the International
Community pressures Israel and attempts
to tie our hands it only serves to
embolden these genocidal terrorists
increases their popularity and ensure
that this evil lives to see another day
distinguished council members perhaps
the most fundamental part of this issue
is that some have still not internalized
what Kamas truly is this emergency
session and the resolution voted upon
were triggered we all know it by the
propaganda of savage
jihadists let that sink in claim names
made by baby killing terrorists were
accepted here and repeated today by the
way at face value without a second
thought and this is what triggered this
session every piece of information that
comes out of Gaza cannot be trusted
Hamas runs Gaza Hamas runs all gazan
institutions so whatever comes out of
the strip is not the truth it is what
Hamas wants you to hear sadly
transparency and the truth are not
Central values for genocidal terrorists
in August 20122 Sarah masroof the former
head of office for Ocha in Gaza tweeted
a condemnation of the Palestinian
Islamic Jihad for their in
indiscriminate rocket fire at Israeli
civilians August 2022 you can check
almost immediately miss muscroft the
head of Ocha was removed from her post
and deleted her
tweet this made Israel very upset
obviously so I asked her boss I hope
he's still with us under Secretary
General Griffith why the UN would remove
an official from their post for
condemning acts of Terror that deserve
un
condemnation do you know what he told me
he said that Miss muscroft was
transferred because according to un
information and assessment there was
danger to her life danger to her life if
a un official received death threats for
telling the truth about the terrorists
try to imagine how any gzen feels about
telling the truth not only are official
gazan sources absolutely unreliable as
they are terrorists they would also be
immediately murdered if they say
something that Kamas doesn't like so
distinguished council member I have to
ask you a question what does this say
about whoever decid decides to believe
the claims of a terror organization
without any
factchecking the Ali hospital was hit by
and only by a Palestinian Islamic Jihad
rocket what happened yesterday including
the tragic the tragic loss of life of
civilians was the sole fault of
Hamas Israel has lots of footage and
even audio recording from Palestinian
Islamic Jihad terrorists to prove this
Beyond a fraction of a
doubt nevertheless the Secretary General
and numerous un officials immediately
accepted the claims of baby killing
terrorists what a
disgrace and today some of you repeated
these
lies how can the Secretary General
forget that he has the obligation to
verify the fact before issuing a
condemnation I
guess it's easy when it comes to
Israel mere months ago the Secretary
General himself signed off on a report
detailing how the misfired Rockets of
Gaz and terorists terrorists G killed
and maimed gazen dozens of gazen
children and medical
personnel we demand an apology an
apology the UN and some of on this
Council rush to adopt the lies of Isis
likee terrorists and refus to accept the
hard evidence of a law-abiding
democracy you should
apologize apologize for never convening
the council when M Rockets are fired
deliberately deliberately at Israeli
Hospital
hospitals barai Hospital in Ashkelon was
directed was directly hit by a Hamas
Rockets just last week where was the
council apologize for years of putting
your heads in the ground while Hamas
ceaselessly build up its War Machine in
Gaza distinguished council members stop
following Kamas script stop playing by
hamas's rules the time has come for this
Council to hold Hamas fully and solely
accountable for the war crimes committed
this Council should be purely focused on
condemning the Hamas terrorists
supporting Israel's right to defend
itself and demanding from Hamas to
immediately and
unconditionally return our hostages
Israel's Rescue Mission can end very
quickly if Kamas terrorists turns
themselves in and release all of the
hostages but this Rescue Mission will
not end until Israel ures ensures that
Kamas atrocities can never be repeated
again and there is no way to ensure this
this other than the obliteration of
hamas's capabilities thank you Mr
President I thank the representative of
Israel for their
statement
before giving the floor to the next uh
speaker I would like to uh say the
following to ensure that all speakers
enjoy the same sizable audience I
strongly recommend that statements do
not exceed five minutes if
possible I now give the floor to the
representative of
Jordan presid I make this statement on
behalf of the Arab group against the
backdrop of the tragic events in Gaza H
where we La the fair voice of the
International Community and any active
and effective International action to
protect the Palestinian people in Gaza
the Arab group condemned in the
strongest words
the the heinous Massacre by the IDF the
criminal
idfm yesterday against the innocent
civilians who were receiving care in AI
Baptist Hospital inas the Arab group
holds Israel the occupying power the
sole responsibility for this heinous War
crime that we cannot remain silent about
it we call on the security Council to
take immediate
action for immediate ceasefire
and the Israeli aggression on Gaza we
call to ensure that humanitarian and
Medical Aid enters this trip and provide
the protection to medical staff and
relief staff
and medical education and un facilities
and we also call for preventing the
forceable displacement of the people of
Gaza Mr
President the heinous crimes of the
occupation are contravening
with rules of international law in
particular Geneva fourth convention in
relation to the protection of civilians
during armed conflicts that's in
addition to the provisions of the UN
Charter and international legitimacy we
recall your the security Council
resolution
2286 that provides that those working in
the medical field and health care should
not be targeted and it condemns all
attacks against the medical staff and
calls for providing the adequate
protection Mr President the Arab group
calls for holding Israel accountable
Israel the occupying power for the
massacres and crimes it continues to
commit against the defenseless
Palestinian people the targeting by
Israel of the Baptist a hospital is not
coming out of vacuum as we mentioned
before the pronouncements from the
Israeli offics was clear it indicated
that Israel will not protect it will not
respect
the humanitarian and moral
values
which
sees that hospitals should be evicted
that triggered the response from the wh
and different un entities they confirmed
that the forced eviction and targeting
of medical facilities and staff are
severe violations to International
material
law in relation to what was said by
Martin Griffith a short while ago a
warning has been issued by Israeli
authorities to 20 Medical institutions
including the Baptist Hospital
that is shortly before the attack on the
hospital in this
connection we stress that the heinous
crimes against the people of
Gaza are crimes against the humanity of
all of us condemned this attack is a
humanitarian call Purely humanitarian
call that makes it incumbent upon us to
unify to put an end to this war and to
provide the necessary International
protection to the Palestinian people
immediately the Arab group warns that
this war against the innocent civilians
has entered a serious phase that will
take the region to a
disaster the International Community and
the security Council should assume its
responsibility in maintaining
International Peace and security by
putting an end to the blood shed and the
killing of children women and
elderly we stress that we will be The
Advocates Advocate Defenders of the
rights of Palestinians and their Just
Cause And we stress that the reason
behind the conflict is this
occupation if we want peace and security
the Palestinian cause should be resolved
with the establishment of the
independent Palestinian State along the
borders of June 1967 with its Jerusalem
as its capital and according to
International resolutions and the arabes
initiatives in conclusion we express our
heartfelt condolences to the families of
the murders and we call God to have
mercy on them and to Grant recovery to
those who are wounded and injured thank
you
Mr
President I thank the representative of
Jordan for their statement and I now
call give the floor to the
representative of
Egypt thank you president I should like
to congratulate you upon assuming the
presidency of the security Council I'd
like to thank Martin I'd like to thank
toland thank you for your briefings
furthermore thank you the UAE and the
Russian Federation
which asked for this emergency session
of the council to be
convened in light of the Israeli bombing
of the Baptist hospital alak hospital in
the Gaza
Strip This was part and parcel of an
attempt to uproot the Palestinian people
forcing it to leave its territory this
crime committed on the 17th of October
is a new chapter in a long series of
violations which did not begin on the
8th of
October they began much earlier than
that they began when the occupation
began this requires the International
Community to put an end to its current
policy and
begin to hold to account uh an illegal
political session everyone who
commissioned participated called for and
ordered these crimes the crimes
committed yesterday included the events
underway in
Palestine call on us to shoulder our
responsibility and we're all well aware
that
are friends
Brazil will be able to shoulder its
responsibility and uh fulfill these
duties as part of their presidential
duties and this is necessary because
what's going on it poses an imaginable
risks to the region and to International
Peace and security these risks cannot be
rolled out therefore we
against and took action to avoid these
risks on numerous occasions the
occupation cannot go
on these crimes cannot be
overlooked inal
measures taken specifically the
broadening and extending of the
illegitimate illegal
settlements the crimes
being committed the desecration of holy
sight it's the political deadlock owing
to Israel's edance the condescending
fashion with which Israel treats law all
of this is fuel to the
fire we must ensure that no one uses
what we've just said is as a pretext
they shouldn't recycle narratives
accusing us of terrorism we'd like to
therefore reiterate speaking before you
speaking before this August assembly
speaking before the world a categorical
rejection and direct condemnation of all
acts which involve taking of Civilian
hostages this is a position which we
expressed we did this clearly and all
Arab states have in fact expressed their
position very
clearly at the ministerial meeting of
the Council of the leag of
States earlier this
year Mr President we condemned civilians
being targeted we've condemned this and
we also have condemned the double
standards we've seen we
condemn civilians being targeted our
brothers in occupied Palestine being
targeted we'd like to reiterate our
condemnation and staer rejection of all
crimes being committed by Israel against
the Palestinian people the latest such
crime is uh the targeting of Al Baptist
hospital yesterday we'd like to reaffirm
our rejection of Israel's attempts to
evade responsibility and attempts taken
by certain International parties to
cover for Israel by providing false
false
excuses and this is what resulted in the
impossible situation we have on our
hands in Palestinian territory in the
Gaza Strip we see civilians being
bombarded in their homes in hospitals
because of the ongoing
refusal of refusal to
adopt initiatives get towards uh
ensuring calm and political initiatives
as
well unless the International Community
shoulders its share of responsibility in
full unless this August Council
shoulders its full share of
responsibility this explosive
situation we won't have Clear Vision of
the procedure that's required and we do
have a Clear Vision we need an immediate
and unconditional cessation of
hostilities and we are surprised this is
the ordinary procedure which applies in
all armed conflicts nevertheless we
don't see the same level of
commitment gear towards achieving this
in Gaza despite the risk of the conflict
spilling over there are some states
which have not done their atmost to
achieve a ceasefire but we must say that
they
are they will not
SP these risks this might fuel the
Flames of conflict second we need to
guarantee the protection of civilians we
need to furnish humanitarian assistance
to civilians we were equally taken back
to see that this principle which is one
of the most fundamental principles of
humanity the fact that we're debating
this
principle the fact that it is
controversial when the protection of
civilians in armed conflict is one of
the pillars of international
law it is in fact one of the pillars of
humanity we must therefore immediately
CE targeting medical
institutions which is something that's
been condemned by various un Security
Council resolutions such as resolution
2286 which condemns all violence and
acts committed against hospitals and
other medical facilities we also need to
immediately with withdraw abolish the
evacuation order that's what Israel
calls it this is one of the most
abominable abominable instances of fored
to transfer our populations in the
modern area this is
acious
justification which Israel claims to be
a means of protecting civilians third we
must put an end to hate speech
to justification of crimes committed
against the Palestinian people to their
demonization animals this is a term that
was used by an official of a country
which claims to be Democratic this
description these
words were not commented on by other
states which continuously talk about the
principles of humanity this kind of
speech poisons our minds and fuels
conflict fourth we need to do our utmost
deploy all efforts to free detainees
hostages and ensure they're treated in
keeping with international law and the
principle of humanity Mr chairman Egypt
ever since uh the the latest conflict
began has been working as part of its
historic role to help the Palestinian
people and restore peace we're working
with this vision in mind we want to
establish a ceasefire by taking measures
to uphold and guarantee humanitarian
access to the Gaza Strip and to mobilize
sufficient uh Aid Egypt also called for
the convening of an emergency
humanitarian Summit in KIRO on the 21st
of October with the participation of all
International part and Regional parties
affected by the crisis under these very
pressing circumstances given the risk of
escalation in order
to overcome this crisis and somehow pave
the way for a lasting comprehensive and
fair
solution We Stand convinced
that simply managing the crisis
containing circumscribing the
aspirations of the Palestinian
people is an approach which uh should be
consigned to
history Mr
President Egypt Egypt people people all
over the
world have their eyes on you the eyes of
the world are on you on the security
Council so that the security Council
shoulders its responsibility put us an
end to this war which was waged by
Israel
against Palestinian territories and
against and innocent unarmed people and
all the people want is to enjoy its
fundamental rights to freedom and to
live in dignity in an independent state
like all other peoples of the world
thank you Mr
President well you've been listening
there to an emergency session of the UN
Security Council on the Israel Gaza War
we just heard there from Jordan and
Egypt calling for an immediate ceasefire
protection for civilians a halt to
Israeli aggression in Gaza and Urgent
access for humanitarian Aid Egypt also
rejecting Israel's claims about the Alat
Hospital blast while the Israeli
ambassador to the UN gillad erdan has
criticized the security Council saying
it's fixated on humanitarian corridors
and aid but says while they're important
there and I quote here not a solution to
prevent hamas's next atrocious Massacre
he's reiterated that that blast at the
Ally Hospital which killed nearly 500
people was the result of a Palestinian
Islamic Jihad rocket he says that Israel
has the evidence to prove it the
Palestinian representative to the UN
Riad Manor called repeatedly for the
council to stop the Bloodshed he said
says the events of the last 10 days will
shape the next 10 years he says this war
can be stopped now but that it requires
strong sensible leadership let's speak
to our correspondent Kristen salumi
she's been following the discussion for
us at un headquarters in New York
Christen we saw the US veto a resolution
in the security Council today and now
divisions are clearly being laid
bare yeah we had two things happening in
the security Council today one uh
resolution was put forward calling for
humanitarian pauses that was vetoed by
the United States and now what we've
been seeing play out is an emergency
meeting that was called by Russia and
the United Arab Emirates uh on the
situation in Gaza in response to the
bombing of the alahi uh Hospital there
uh and in that briefing we got updates
from the un's Middle East coordinator
and the humanitarian Chief Martin
Griffith about the situation in Gaza and
they both say that um a humanitarian
ceasefire is needed the Secretary
General himself has now said it as well
a humanitarian ceasefire is needed to
get Aid into innocent civilians in Gaza
um given that the situation gets more
and more dire and Tor venison the Middle
East coordinator warn that the conflict
has the danger of expanding Beyond
Israel Palestine now into the broader
region uh of the of the Middle East uh
because tensions are so awful over the
situation there um but many of the
countries have also been talking about
the security council's failure to act in
light of what's been happening and many
see it as uh a slight on the security
Council a discrediting of the security
Council given that it's primary
responsibility is maintenance of peace
and security the fact that the council
could not come together in one way or
another on this issue and make some sort
of statement uh many have decried going
forward Kristen salumi there with the
latest for us from the United Nations
thank you Kristen let's now bring in
Maran bashara he's alaz senior political
analyst he joins us from London Maran no
surprises from the rhetoric we've been
hearing today but I've been curious what
do you make of the competing claims that
we keep hearing around the alaki
hospital
blast well of course you know I'm no um
expert let's say on that but from the
various allegations I've seen especially
from the way the Israelis have uh you
know kept advancing argument and
retracting those arguments and uh I'm
just hearing now the Israeli Ambassador
Eran saying we have the proof I'm
reminded by how Israel Advanced the
proof from
2022 about what happened in uh on
October uh
2023 and then they had to take it back
and they've been actually various
Israelis officials and non-officials
they've been walking back a lot of their
allegations they seem to be a bit
confused on how to um you know justify
or defend themselves and
accuse islami of having you know been
the reason uh for the for the suffering
at the hospital and clearly from some of
the media as well including some of the
they call them sister channels there's
been a lot of skepticism about the fact
that uh one of those sort of stray
Rockets from Hamas wouldn't do the
damage that we've seen at the hospital
usually these Rockets you know could do
I don't know a dent in a building or
something or or hit a car but the damage
in the hospital and the way the damage
and I don't want to repeat the details
from our
correspondents at the scene that they
have seen only limbs they couldn't even
see you know whole bodies that is not
something that's uh caused by a stray
rocket that's more of something that's
uh you know the the result of serious
bombing Israel time M it's clearly
raised tensions at the security Council
we just heard Kristen there talking
about how it's being criticized for for
its failure to act we've seen now two
resolutions two draft resolutions one
from Russia one from Brazil both of them
have failed what's the next step now for
the security
Council well you know the security
Council hasn't been very effective since
the polarization on the international
scene right and I think clearly the
Russians and Americans are not exactly
going to agree on the same thing they
they kept you know they keep scoring
points they don't want to make any real
point about anything uh you know that
counts especially like in this case they
keep scoring points against each other
and clearly the Americans are not even
in the mood to hear anything of a
compromise like the one presented by the
Brazilians uh under the pretext that
there was no uh you know clause about
Israel's right to defend itself I just
and I need to you know just take a point
with that once again I I don't think
anyone's questioning Israel's right to
defense its people the question is you
know could could it continue with 55
years of occupation and and defend that
could it use continue with a system of
arid and and and defend that could it do
17 years of Siege and defend that I
think the question of you know
self-defense has really mutated into
self
deceit where the Israelis you know are
quite delusional about what they can and
cannot do and I think that was
reflective a
bit what we've heard from the Israeli
Ambassador this verbal diarrhea I mean I
don't know you know it's like anger hit
the fan and he just shot right left and
center the satanic entity I think did he
just call the security Council satanic
entity I think he did and did he just
refer to uh the Hamas fight as Hamas
Nazis I mean seriously uh it's just this
this this this this sort of language
this sort of rhetoric and you know
certainly you know they said truth is
the first victim of War but clearly
language is also a victim of war the
Israeli
Ambassador feels that he his country
should not be held accountable it
shouldn't be questioned there should be
no resolutions passed there should be no
discussion at an international Forum
because Israel is above all others and
it has rights above all other rights and
its people are of a greater God
apparently than the Palestinians who are
of a Lesser God or something like that I
mean the idea that the Israeli
Ambassador just so upset after the death
uh of of thousands or the casualties and
the 10s of thousands that his country
shouldn't be held accountable that it
shouldn't be even questioned at a forum
like the UN Security Council and last
but not least if I may quickly I think
it was interesting to hear from the Arab
ambassadors AB khik of Egypt and of
course the Jordanian Ambassador the way
now they
frame the way they frame their argument
is very clear for a change Israel is
responsible for the bombing in Gaza and
it's responsible for the deaths at the
hospital and Ali in
Gaza Maran bashara the alaz senior
political analyst reflecting on what
we've been hearing from that emergency
session of the UN Security Council thank
you very much for sharing your thoughts
Maran